I welcome to four side kitchen with our
permanent guest chef Cody night a how's
it going i am your host a of the richard
Codey what are we doing today today
we're going to be making shepherd's pie
it's a British classic or Irish
depending on which one you talk to you
they all claim it we're cooking with
practically everything you already have
at home the only thing you should have
to go out and buy his ground lamb other
than that you have all the stuff you
could use ground beef if you want but
that would be a cottage by same thing
just a little bit different flavor so
we're going to cook with today we got
our potatoes you got one and a half
carats a fourth cup of peas half an
onion two to three cloves of garlic a
fourth cup of flour ground lamb you got
some pepper we have a port wine some
ketchup we're just going to throw in
there mix of rosemary thyme and bay leaf
I think it's actually pronounced fine
Cody I know it's time there's a th at
the beginning but it's time okay well
we'll agree to disagree alright our
chicken stock two egg yolks our Parmesan
cheese and just a salt pepper mix so
we're going to do first Taylor is we're
going to peel our potatoes and our
carrots okay now if you want to start
peeling our potatoes we're going to do
is just going to peel them and to leave
about one fourth of the skin on them you
want to leave a fourth of the skin on
there yeah you want me to cut it in four
pieces and just not peel working no no
just just peel it and leave about a
fourth of the skin on that okay well
logistics of that you aren't very good
but ok we're going to do that because we
want some skin on in our mashed potatoes
and while he does that I'm gonna peel
some of our carrots about a quarter mmm
a little more
looks good when we're done feeling these
Taylor I'm gonna have you cut those
potatoes into force and I'm going to
grate all our vegetables and the reason
we're grading our vegetables is so they
get really mushy in there it'd almost be
like a puree you want me to really know
they're in there my baby too that's
right kinda looks like a pimple so when
you get it really small like this you
know kinda just be careful of your
fingers don't want to cut yourself
grieving the garlic's the hardest part
that's so small
now that our potatoes are cut up our
water is boiling which the oil pretty
fast pretty convenient nth we're gonna
throw thrower potatoes in or boiling
water grant throw our meat into our hot
pan we're just going to brown our meat
while our potatoes just do their thing
awesome
all right now that our meat just about
brown we go ahead and add our pepper
release throw that around make sure it
gets seasoned all around now we're going
to run out of all our veggies that we've
got up we shredded look at you got a
nice color in there now
how's it going you know it's cooking
it's the exciting part wait for it all
to hell together yeah it's wild so what
now Cody we waited on our veggies to get
nice and mushy and we're just about at
that point so we're going to mix in our
flour we're going to steer real well
make sure it gets in all to me because
that's going to be the base for our
gravy so now we're just going to put it
to kind of heavy shots of ketchup really
mix it in there just like we did with
our flour we're gonna make sure it's all
nice and mixed in there so I have the
lemon one now it's no lemon I don't know
where you got no lemon where did you get
a limb it's on the counter we're not
using everything that's it we're going
to do a shut a heavy shot of a port of
mine
so after you cook out your wine you're
going to throw in all your herbs once
again mix mix well that's the key to
this recipe just mixing it all in well
alright while we're waiting on our
potatoes and our meat we can go ahead
and separate our egg yolks so if you
just want to crack it you know separate
it you just crack it and then pass the
yolk back and forth and the white will
fall out yeah there you go good job job
my friend I'm gonna check on the meat
all right all right so we're gonna hit
it with our chicken stock and that's
going to make our gravy we're only going
to cook it for about two minutes you'll
want to reduce it too much do that it's
already starting to thicken up alright
so we're just going to pour it right in
here we're gonna spread it out nice and
evenly okay so you have it nice and
spread it out spread out yeah yeah so
what we're gonna do is have you killed
the heat on our potatoes and you know
strain it so you go do that now spread
it spread it thread its its wine okay
so now I'm gonna have you take all of
our extra leftover ingredients without
the except for the egg whites I'm going
to mix them all into this bowl right
here so I'll get these egg whites so you
don't forget okay and just start
throwing them all together which one
should i do first probably start with
the potatoes okay that's pretty gross
but so what kind of texture are we
looking for with it Oh your basic mashed
potato it's not going to be as creamy
because we have the cheese in there and
the eggs which are really sticking it
together and we don't have the milk or
the butter but you know your basic
mashed potato texture we're going to
scoop our potatoes right into our piping
bag which you don't have to do this at
home it's just for it'll just be for
presentation only you can just spread it
on evenly but we're gonna make it look
nice and fancy your fancies good auntie
is good
so just little little bit so it'll be
spread evenly throughout kind of like
potato flower buds exactly right Taylor
that's our final product about throw it
in the oven for about 17 minutes it's
preheated at 350 degrees what are you
okay well you said hi it's just not it's
it's a meat pie it's okay it's fine it's
a trick it's fine it's fine truck trust
me that's it'll be good okay it's just
not what I was expecting it'll be good
okay
all right that's what we want with the
nice golden brown tips all right so it's
like one last thing to do and that's DJ
go ahead and let's know how it is
alright cool he's in carries and carries
all right i don't like Carrie stripe
that's really good all right it's good
no all right thing ya go having taken a
bite now I'm not sure about this one
what are you sheepish just eat it
Oh